Exit Ticket

In this course I have been challenged every week. The content has made me consider the form of research and data in a way I had not previously considered. The tech aspects of this course also challenged me every step of the way. Though I can say that moving through these tasks to the best of my ability has opened my eyes to the inner working of what makes all of the archaeology "go". I took for granted the technologies we have and how they make data digestable. Through this class I also had the oppurtunity to challenge and explore the biases that exist within data. For the most part I have encountered data exclusively framed as pieces of 'truth' that only became biases once interpreted. I have come to know that data is much less sterile than i thought it is biased through its collection, and methods carry the legacy of their creation. These ideas have impacted me deeply and have made me reconsider my work in all of my classes. I have also discovered a real passion for the theory behind open access data and public archaeology. I find it deeply facinating to consider work in the context of decendant communities and living memory. This is deeply important in the Candian context, where work done on early settlements has decendant communities and living memories that have been systemactically silenced through colonization. 

I was especially impacted by the discussion of how open data can have negative impacts in the week 11 podcast. As a journalism student I found it enlightening to hear the other side of how a story found through open data can get away from itself. I sat with the concerns of the bone collection stories that centred the collectors. Putting myself in the shoes of those who made the mistake of doing so; I can imagine how an editorial meeting would have lit up with the suggestion of such a story. I can also imagine how an editor would likely push for framing the story around a collector. This is a case where the ethical guidelines of journalism fall short. I wouldn't have had half the mind to make the proper considerations before this class. I feel that the exploration of the theory of data in this class has properly equipped me to deal with the extractive nature of journalism better. 

Alot of time is spent considering how we can be story tellers instead of story takers in journalism. Though, we never actually explore the dimensions of how that occurs in J school. I feel like through this class I have come to better undertsand the intimacy that data can convey as a living breathing snapshot of a life, society, or moment. 

What really stood out to me was having the oppurtunity to try without to pressure to produce a polished end product. Admittedly, I rarely was able to reproduce the class excercises, my attempts usually got a few steps in before the errors were beyond me. I think my proudest moment this semester was the fisrt time I was able to define a variable in the code in week 5. It felt powerful to have a problem pop up and to be able to do something about it. I was also rather skeptical about the public annotations of the readings in the course. I came to really enjoy using hypothesis and interacting with my classmates. It was really enriching to see how my classmates were making connections between readings, and other materials. It challenged me to do the same. 


I think I deserve a B or a B+ in this class. I can say confidently I spent more time on this than any other class I took this semester, and I did genuinely try until I got stuck on the techy aspects of the course. This was unfamiliar territory for me in terms of the expectations of the class, and the tech aspects usually left me pretty frustrated and defeated but the goal being learning instead of achievment made it easier to make attempts even if they technically failed. That being said, I think I could have spent more time interacting with my classmates through the Discord and hypothesis. Overall I learned alot in this class and it challenged the preconceived notions I had about archaeology. I am grateful for the oppurtunity to make attempts with the goal of learning, it was very challenging at times but I do see the value in the work flow of the class, which I was initally not overly pleased with. 

 